fix(docs): update mod handbook, update width and cleanup (#41352)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: docs/moderator-handbook.md

# The official freeCodeCamp Moderator Handbook.

This handbook will help you moderate different places in our community. This covers conversations and interactions in issues & pull request threads on GitHub, the community forum, the chat rooms and other official communities that we foster.

> [!NOTE]
> All freeCodeCamp moderators are community-wide moderators. That is we trust you to oversee any of these places.

> You can serve as a moderator in any of the communities that are of the most interest to you. Some moderators just help out on GitHub. Others just help out on the forum. Some are active everywhere.

Author: ```suggestion
You can serve as a moderator on any of the platforms that are of the most interest to you. Some moderators just help out on GitHub. Others just help out on the forum. Some are active everywhere.
```

We have a single code of conduct that governs our entire community. The fewer the rules, the easier they are to remember. You can read those rules and commit them to memory [here](https://code-of-conduct.freecodecamp.org).

> [!NOTE]
> As a moderator we would add you to one more more teams on GitHub, our community forum(s) & chat servers. If you are missing access on on a platform that you would like to moderate please [reach out to a staff](/FAQ?id=additional-assistance).

## Moderating GitHub

Moderators have two primary responsibilities GitHub:

1. Triaging and responding to issues
2. Reviewing and merging pull requests (a.k.a QA).

### Moderating GitHub Issues

> We use main [`freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp`](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/issues) repo as a common issue tracker for all of our repositories. We get new issues every day, all of which need to be triaged, labeled and addressed. This is also a great place to start helping with open-source codebase contributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use our main [`freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp`](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/issues) repo as a common issue tracker for all of our repositories. We get new issues every day, all of which need to be triaged, labeled and addressed. This is also a great place to start helping with open-source codebase contributions.
```

#### Issue Triage

[Triaging](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triage), is a process of prioritizing attention to each new issue report. We have a extensive list of labels that we use to mark the priority, category, status and scope of each issue.

You can help us moderate the the issue reports by helping us organize and triage these by applying labels from [this list](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/labels). Usually a description is available alongside the label explaining its meaning.

Please pay special attention to the labels `"help wanted"` and `"first timers only"`. These are to be added to threads that you think can be opened up to potential contributors for making a pull request.

A `"first timer only"` label should be applied to a trivial issue (ex. a typo fix) and should accompany additional information. You can use this [reply template](/moderator-handbook?id=first-timer-only-issues) for triage.

#### Closing Stale, Outdated, Inactive Issues and Pull Requests

> - Stale issues or PRs are those that have not seen any activity from the OP for 21 days (3 weeks from the last activity), but only after a moderator has requested more information/changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Stale issues or PRs are those that have not seen any activity from the author for 21 days (3 weeks from the last activity), but only after a moderator has requested more information/changes.
```

- Activity is defined as: Comments requesting an update on the PR and triages like `status: update needed` label etc.

- If the OP asks for additional assistance or even time, the above can be relaxed and revisited after a response is given. In any case, the mods should use their best judgment to resolve the outstanding PR's status.

> [!TIP]

> > We recommend you use this list of standard [reply templates](http://localhost:3200/#/moderator-handbook?id=reply-templates) while triaging issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> We recommend you use this list of standard [reply templates](https://contribute.freecodecamp.org/#/moderator-handbook?id=reply-templates) while triaging issues.
```

### Moderating Pull Requests

> Pull Requests (PRs) are how contributors submit changes to freeCodeCamp's repository. We must perform Quality Assurance (QA) on pull requests before we decide whether to merge them or close them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pull Requests (PRs) are how contributors submit changes to freeCodeCamp's repository. We must perform Quality Assurance (QA) on pull requests before we decide whether to merge them, request changes, or close them.
```

#### Types of Pull Requests

1. **Challenge Instruction Edits**

   These are changes to the text of challenges - the Description, Instructions, or Test Text.

>    You can also review these right on GitHub and decide whether to merge them. We need to be a bit more careful about these because millions of people will encounter this text as they work through the freeCodeCamp curriculum. Does the pull request make the text more clear without making it much longer? Are the edits relevant and not overly pedantic? Remember that our goal is for challenges to be as clear and as short as possible. They aren't the place for obscure details.Contributors may try to add links to resources to the challenges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can also review these right on GitHub and decide whether to merge them. We need to be a bit more careful about these because millions of people will encounter this text as they work through the freeCodeCamp curriculum. Does the pull request make the text more clear without making it much longer? Are the edits relevant and not overly pedantic? Remember that our goal is for challenges to be as clear and as short as possible. They aren't the place for obscure details. Contributors may try to add links to resources to the challenges.
```

>    You can close invalid pull requests and reply to them with these [reply templates](http://localhost:3200/#/moderator-handbook?id=closing-invalid-pull-requests).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can close invalid pull requests and reply to them with these [reply templates](https://contribute.freecodecamp.org/#/moderator-handbook?id=closing-invalid-pull-requests).
```

   If the change looks good please ensure to leave an approval with a "LGTM" comment. Once a pull-request gets at least two approvals (including yours) from the moderators or the dev-team, you can go ahead and merge it.

2. **Challenge Code Edits**

   These are changes to the code in a challenge - the Challenge Seed, Challenge Solution, and Test Strings.

   These pull requests need to be pulled down from GitHub and tested on your local computer or GitPod to make sure the challenge tests can still be passed with the current solution, and the new code doesn't introduce any errors.

   Some contributors may try to add additional tests to cover pedantic corner-cases. We need to be careful to not make the challenge too complicated. These challenges and their tests should be as simple and intuitive as possible. Aside from the algorithm challenges and interview prep section, learners should be able to solve each challenge within about 2 minutes.

>    You can close invalid pull requests and reply to them with these [reply templates](http://localhost:3200/#/moderator-handbook?id=closing-invalid-pull-requests).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can close invalid pull requests and reply to them with these [reply templates](https://contribute.freecodecamp.org/#/moderator-handbook?id=closing-invalid-pull-requests).
```

<details>
   <summary>
      First time contributor badge on pull requests (screenshot)
   </summary>
   <br>
   <img src="https://i.imgur.com/dTQMjGM.png" alt="First time contributor badge on pull requests">
</details>

If the pull request doesn't look ready to merge you can politely reply telling the author what they should do to get it ready. Hopefully, they will reply and get their pull request closer to ready.

If you need a second opinion on a pull request, go ahead and leave your comments on the pull request, then add the "discussing" label to the pull request.

##### Closing an invalid pull request:

Often, a pull request will be obviously low effort. You can often tell this immediately when the contributor didn't bother checking the checkboxes in the Pull Request Template or used a generic pull request title like "made changes" or "Update index.md".

There are also situations where the contributor is trying to add a link to their own website, or include a library they themselves created, or has a frivolous edit that doesn't serve to help anyone but themselves.

> You can close invalid pull requests and reply to them with these [reply templates](http://localhost:3200/#/moderator-handbook?id=closing-invalid-pull-requests).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can close invalid pull requests and reply to them with these [reply templates](https://contribute.freecodecamp.org/#/moderator-handbook?id=closing-invalid-pull-requests).
```
